>> Scott Moss: The other thing to know is
that now that we have different roles in
the chat, there's a certain order you have
to follow, otherwise, the AI will break.
So you can have multiple user messages
if you want next to each other.
You can have multiple assistant messages
if you want next to each other in
succession.
But you have to think about those,
what would happen?
If some reason you submitted three
user messages before the AI submitted
the response to the first one,
what do you think would happen?
I don't know, it's very unpredictable.
So you probably wanna guard against that,
although it's technically possible.
But then there's other situations where
the AI actually won't accept it at all.
Once we get into tool calling, you'll see.
If the AI says you must call this function
and you don't come back with a response to
that function, the AI won't accept
the answer and it will break.
So you have to have these exact responses
in order for the AI to continue.
And then the other side, again, is like,
technically, the AI will still work, but
you might have a really bad user
experience if you sent up four user
messages before it
responded to the first one.
I have no idea what the AI
is gonna do in that example.
It might batch them and
try to do them in order, who knows?
But it's not gonna be good,
so don't do it.
This one's pretty simple,
I'm just gonna be using a in memory,
well, I say in memory, but
it's really a file-based database.
It's called lowdb.
It just treats a JSON file as a database,
that's it.
And it's just like an abstraction
over writing to the file and
reading from the file, that's it.
And there's some helpers in here
to help us prep the messages,
because there's some things we need on the
messages as far as our UI is concerned,
createdAt and ids, to make them unique.
But the AI won't or doesn't care about
things like ids and createdAt time stamps.
So we wanna add and
remove those things as we go.
So let's do that.
We're gonna go into the memory file,
you have this in here,
and we have this thing from
lowdb called JSONFilePreset.
So we're gonna import that from lowdb,
Json, or lowdb/node,
>> Scott Moss: JSONFilePreset, like that.
>> Scott Moss: I have
this type that I made.
Now that we have different
types of messages and
the types' file's called a AIMessage.
If you wanna go look at it,
it's basically this type that
OpenAI says is a message
you might get back.
And then I added the other
two that it didn't had,
which are the other two
types that I talked about.
So this is just a catch all type of
every type of message you might send or
get back from an AI.
So that's what that is, nothing crazy.
And then I have this thing called uuid.
If you don't know what a uuid is, it's
just a spec on generating a random string.
This is so
we can create conflict-free IDs.
We don't have a database, so
we're making our own IDs right now.
That's what this is,
it's just a uuid, nothing crazy.
>> Scott Moss: And then for TypeScripts,
I'm just adding another type
that extends the AIMessage,
because the AIMessage itself
doesn't have an id and a createdAt.
But when it's in the database, it will.
So I just extend the AIMessage with
the id and the createdAt, so I have that.
You don't have to add this,
you never have to add anything with types.
Types are always optional.
I just like types.
No, actually, I honestly,
I take that back.
I don't really like types,
I just hate the red squigglies.
Let's just be honest, I hate it.
It's so annoying,
it's obvious not do this.
I can't help it, that's really it.
So the first thing is let's make
a function called addMetadata.
It takes a message, that's an AIMessage,
and it just adds a new id and
createdAt on the message, that's it.
So lets do that, so
export const addMetadata.
It's gonna take a message,
that's an AIMessage, and
it's just gonna return a brand new object
that's got the message spread over it.
And it's gonna make an id with a uuid, and
then a createdAt,
that's a string, that's today.
That's it.
Same thing a database would do, just
an abstraction around it, nothing crazy.
It's nothing to do with AI other than the
fact that when you get the message back
from the AI, there's no id on it,
there's no createdAt.
It's just a role and
some content, that's it.
You don't have any of this stuff.
So if you wanna save them in your
database, there will be ids and createdAt.
So, and if you're building a chat app, you
are saving your messages in a database.
Otherwise, how the hell do
you feed them back to the AI?
>> Scott Moss: Okay, and
then we'll just make the opposite,
we'll make one that removes the metadata.
So when we feed these messages back
to the AI, it doesn't have the id and
the createdAt on it cuz the AI
doesn't care about that.
And I think some of them might even
break if you try to add them on there.
So just removed the id and the createdAt
because, yeah, we don't need it.
So let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: removeMetadata,
and this is just gonna return.
Oops, okay, all this completion, okay,
this is just gonna say super,
super trick here.
You can say, createdAt,
prop off the things that you don't want.
And then the rest is just like,
I'll just say rest = message,
and then now you can just
return the message, right?
I'm sorry, you can return the rest.
I'm just taking those things off,
everything that's left is the actual
message and then just return that.
Okay, I have another type here for data.
This is just so
I can type my database methods,
something that lowdb allows you to do.
So if you have the other type up top,
you can just make this one as well.
In fact, I'll just make it up here,
wire side up here.
There we go.
We got our data, again,
types are optional.
And then as far as the database goes, it's
pretty simple, we just need a function
that gets the database, adds a message,
and then gets the messages.
I'm sorry, adds messages and
then gets the messages.
That's it,
cuz we're gonna get them all at one time,
and then we want the ability to
save many at a time if we want.
So let's do that.
So I'm gonna make my defaultData,
which is type Data.
And for this, I'm just gonna make
it an object with a messages array.
That's how our database is gonna be.
It's just gonna be an object with
messages array, pretty simple.
You need to make a function
that says getDb,
and I'm gonna export this.
All getDb is gonna do is
use this preset here.
You can use this generic.
If you don't know what
a generic is in TypeScript,
it's like passing an argument to a type.
So that type can use it internally for
something, usually for
the return value or something like that.
In this case, this generic is
telling the JSON preset that this
database has this type of data,
essentially.
So now when you use all these methods
down here, when you write this code,
it'll know that there's a messages
array here, it'll know that.
You don't have to do it,
it doesn't change the behavior,
it just gives you really
cool auto complete.
But shit, if you're using a cursor,
it will probably autocomplete it anyway.
But it's a different type of autocomplete.
I mean, honestly,
if you run TypeScript at build time,
that's probably the most benefit.
But doesn't everybody
just turn that off now?
[LAUGH] I don't know, if I'm the only
one that is like, turn off TypeScript.
I don't care if there's errors,
just leave me alone.
I only want it in the editor,
but who knows?
Okay, so getDb, this is db =,
is it a promise?
Yes, okay, JSONFilePreset.
I guess I gotta make this async.
Okay, I did not mean to be that,
but whatever.
JSONFilePreset, passing our generic,
I'm just gonna put it on a file.
This is saying,
where do you want this file to be?
We already have a file called db.json.
You can literally put in whatever you
want here and it will put it there.
I'm using db.json, and then I'm going
to say the default data, which is this.
So we got that,
return our db, super simple.
Now, we're gonna say, addMessages.
>> Scott Moss: Messages,
it's going to be an async
function that takes in messages whose type
is an array of AIMessages, like that.
And then pretty simple, you get the db,
we push those messages into it and
then we call it write.
So let's do that.
So we say db = await db, db.data and
this is where that TypeScript comes in.
You can see it sees that
there's a messages there.
We'll push in these messages, but not
before adding the metadata to each one.
So adding the id, adding the createdAt,
so I map over them.
And for each one of them,
I add the metadata, and then I just say,
write that to the file, please.
>> Scott Moss: Pretty simple.
I'm pretty sure the way Lodash works is
when you get the db,
it just reads the file, has it in memory.
At that point, you've manipulated
any JavaScript object and
then you write it back to the file.
This is an abstraction around that.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, and
then opposite, getMessages.
>> Scott Moss: Same thing,
gotta get the database.
And then we want to return
db.data.messages.map,
and we want to remove the metadata.
Cuz if we're getting the messages, that
means we're about to add them to the AI.
So we want to remove the id,
we wanna remove the createdAt.
We only want the role of the content,
the things that the AI wants,
not the things that it doesn't want,
so we're gonna do that.
And then the next thing we wanna do is we
want to add our chat history to our LLM.
So when we ask you that question
this time, what is my name,
it'll at least have the information.
Will it get it right?
I hope so, [LAUGH] but it'll at
least have the information, right?
And a good model will get it right.
So let's do that.
Let's go back to our index file.
We can say, come here.
Well, there's a couple
things we need to do, right?
So one thing is if we add
the previous messages here,
which we will get from getMessages,
and then we add our next one here.
It's not gonna remember this one
cuz we're only just adding it.
So we're gonna have to save that one,
too, but
I wanted to see if you
guys were gonna catch up.
Then I realized that one's
a little hard to catch.
So let's just do it.
So yeah, let's get the messages.
So let's say import, we'll add messages
and we'll also get messages like this.
And then here,
we want to be able to pass in the history.
So go to run LLM.
Let's see, right now,
it only takes in the message string.
We want it to be able to take
in messages like this and
not just a message string, right?
So if we go to the LLM right quick,
we can instead say, you know what?
No more are we are just
a transactional LLM or a chat thing.
So I'm gonna say messages now.
You're gonna take in messages, and
messages is gonna be an array
of AI messages, like that.
>> Scott Moss: And now, down here,
I can just get rid of this and
just say it's just messages now.
>> Scott Moss: So
you take in some messages and
we just forward them straight to OpenAI,
we don't do anything else.
Just grab the messages,
pass them to OpenAI, done.
Follow me there?
Okay, cool, back to the index.
We can get rid of the userMessage, and
now I can say, let me grab the history or
whatever you wanna call it,
that's getMessages.
>> Scott Moss: Well, I guess I'll
just call it messages for name sake.
It's not to write it twice because I'm so
lazy.
Then we can just pass in
messages like this with
the older messages at
the beginning of the array.
And then the new message we just
got with a role of user and
content is gonna be userMessage.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, follow me so far?
Okay, so like I said,
we're gonna get the previous ones and
it'll work, but it won't know this
new one cuz we're not saving it.
So just to show you an example,
I'm gonna go into my db.json,
I'm just gonna add some messages in here.
I'm gonna say, role user,
I guess it's gotta be JSON,
role user, and then I'm gonna say content.
I'm gonna say, Hello, my name,
>> Scott Moss: Is Scott,
and I'm just gonna add that
as the first message, and
then I'll add a second message.
And here's where it gets really crazy,
I can speak for the AI.
I can just come here and say,
assistant, remember you said this?
The AI doesn't have to
generate this message.
I can say what the AI said, which is
something you will be doing a lot if you
make a chat app because you don't always
need the AI to generate something.
Some things are deterministic,
you kinda know what they are.
So you will be doing this a lot.
So I was gonna say, well,
the AI responded, but with Hi, Scott.
Cool, so
I'm gonna put those messages in there.
So now, if this works, the very next thing
that I should say is, what is my name?
And it should be able to tell me even
though I told it what my name is.
If I ask it on the CLI, I should say what
my name is and it should say, Scott,
if we did this right.
So let's go see.
I'm gonna say,
>> Scott Moss: What is my name?
Your name is Scott,
looks like it knows my name now, right?
And just to show you that I can
put anything here, let's say John.
>> Scott Moss: If I do that,
then your name is John, right?
Okay, so almost done with this one.
The last thing we need to do
is make sure we save this.
This has to be saved,
we need to save this first.
There's two ways we can do it, we could
just save it here, and then when we get
the messages, it'll already be in here,
or we can get the messages.
Yeah, that's probably the best thing,
just save it here like this.
And then now, when you get the messages,
all you have to do is just say messages.
>> Scott Moss: Because this right here
saves that new userMessage in the chat
already, then we get all the messages and
we just forward them here.
>> Scott Moss: So just adding
the messages before we get them, and
then just only passing in
the messages array like this.
So yes, question.
>> Audience 1: What would be the
difference between sending all of this as
a prompt,
just joining all of the messages?
>> Scott Moss: Sending
all of this as a prompt.
Okay, good question.
So let's break down
the moving parts of this.
This userMessage is the prompt,
this is what it means to send a prompt.
The thing that we're typing in here
is a prompt, this is a prompt.
Each userMessage is a prompt, so
we have to save them individually.
So we can separate the prompt that you
wrote and the response that the LLM gave.
So yeah, that's just how it's stored,
each prompt is its own message.
So the only alternative to that
would be a non-conversational LLM,
it'd be like a one-off
transactional thing.
You just want it to do one thing and
then it's done.
And again,
that's a way different use case.
>> Audience 1: So we have to save
the response of the AI, too?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, you have to save
the response of the AI, too, exactly, yes.
[LAUGH] Yes,
you have to save the response of the AI,
otherwise it won't show up in the memory.
I was hoping someone's gonna run that and
see if they caught that.
But yes, you have to save
the response of the AI, too,
it literally won't be in
the memory if you don't.
And I was gonna try to demonstrate that.
But yeah, so the best way you can do
that is like here's the response,
it's a string.
You could just come down here and
say, wait, addMessages.
In this case,
it's gonna be role assistant and
the content is gonna be the response.
I'm going to clear out my db.
You're probably gonna doing this a lot,
you can just delete
the whole messages thing.
You don't actually have to add
anything back, it'll add it back, but
it's just out of habit,
I just always add it back.
I don't think you have to, I think
that the lowdb will take care of it.
I think if you deleted the file,
it'll still work.
So it's just me doing that.
So now it knows nothing.
So I'll say, what is my name?
Let's ask what is my name.
>> Scott Moss: Says [SOUND] I don't know,
[LAUGH] you never told me, right?
And if I go look at my db, here we go.
Here's the message that I sent,
>> Scott Moss: And
then here's what this
system responded back with.
I have no idea.
So we know that that's there,
so let's teach it then.
Okay, my name is Scott.
So let's see what it says now,
nice to meet you, Scott.
So if we go back and look,
we can see that like, cool.
I said, my name is Scott,
nice to meet you.
Now, it knows.
So anything that I asked going
forward with this memory,
it'll know that it's in the context now.
So as you see,
just a lot more work creating a chat
interface than it is like
a transactional thing.
And this is without thinking about
all the problems that I talked
about as far as context windows and
stuff like that.
So you're gonna run into
a lot of that still.
Cool, any questions on chat and memory?
You can have a full-blown chat with us.
Go ahead and have fun, ask your questions.
At this point,
it's essentially the same thing as
ChatGPT without their system problem.
I don't know what's in
their system problem.